[CUBRIDMAN-87] Add manual for flashback utility (#313)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/admin/admin_utils.rst

        cubrid vacuumdb -C demodb

.. _flashback:

flashback
---------

> The **cubrid flashback** utility is used to get SQL statements to flashback a specific transaction, and can only be executed by the **DBA** user. The system parameter **supplemental_log** must be turned on, and flashback is supported only for DML executed after the **supplemental_log** is set. ::

Reviewer: Is it just for "a" transaction though it will extract SQLs of several transactions at once?
```suggestion
The **cubrid flashback** utility is used to get SQL statements to flashback transactions within a specific time period, and can only be executed by the **DBA** user. The system parameter **supplemental_log** must be turned on, and flashback is supported only for DML executed after the **supplemental_log** is set. ::
```

Author: 1. Information about multiple transactions within a specific time period is displayed in `summary phase`
2. and SQL statements are displayed only for one transaction selected by the user.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to include that flashback is provided for completed transactions (commit, abort). Because we don't know the level of readers who read the manual.

Author: Yes, I will add that description.

    cubrid flashback [options] database_name owner_name.class_name1 [owner_name.class_name2, ...]

*   **cubrid**: An integrated utility for the CUBRID service and database management.

*   **flashback**: A utility that provides statements to flashback a specific transaction.

*   *database_name*: The name of the database to flashback.

> *   *owner_name.class_name*: The classes to flashback to. When specifying the class_name, it must be specified along with the owner name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   *owner_name.class_name*: The classes to flashback. When specifying the class_name, it must be specified along with the owner name.
```

Reviewer 2: @joohok If the syntax(or meaning) of your sentence is valid then you just ignore my comment.

> The following shows what information is displayed when users run "cubrid flashback demodb dba.tbl".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following shows what information is displayed when a user runs "cubrid flashback demodb dba.tbl".
```

::

    $ csql -u dba demodb

    csql> CREATE TABLE tbl (a INT);
    csql> INSERT INTO tbl VALUES (10);

    $ cubrid flashback demodb dba.tbl

    Flashback Summary
    Number of Transaction: 1
    Start date - End date: 03-05-2022:10:52:56 - 03-05-2022:11:02:56
    Transaction id  User name                         Start time            End time              Num_insert  Num_update  Num_delete  Table
               135  DBA                               03-05-2022:11:02:40   03-05-2022:11:02:41            1           0           0  dba.tbl
    Enter transaction id (press -1 to quit): 135

    delete from [dba.tbl] where [a] = 10 limit 1;

> In the above example, when the flashback is performed, it displays information about transactions performed within the specified time period. If users do not specify a period, the transaction history up to 10 minutes before the current time is displayed. When the user selects a transaction ID, SQL statements are provided to perform flashback on DML executed within the selected transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above example, when the flashback is performed, it displays information about transactions executed within the specified time period. If users do not specify a period, the transaction history up to 10 minutes before the current time is used as a period by default. When the user selects a transaction ID, SQL statements are provided to perform flashback on DML executed within the selected transaction.
```

Author: `the transaction history up to 10 minutes before the current time is used as a period by default` 

the subject of above sentence is `the transaction history`, so I will leave it unchanged.

Reviewer 2: @joohok OK. I agree and I understand what you want to say.

> Each column's meaning is as following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each column's meaning in the 'Flashback Summary' is as following.
```

>     *   Transaction id : The identifier of transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   Transaction id : The identifier of the transaction
```

    *   User name : Transaction user

>     *   Start time : Transaction start time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   Start time : Transaction start time (approximate time)
```

    *   End time :  Transaction end time

>     *   Num_insert : Number of insert operation executed within the transaction
>     *   Num_update : Number of update operation executed within the transaction
>     *   Num_delete : Number of delete operation executed within the transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   Num_insert : Number of insert operations executed within the transaction
    *   Num_update : Number of update operations executed within the transaction
    *   Num_delete : Number of delete operations executed within the transaction
```

>     *   Table : List of tables for which DML has been performed within the transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   Table : List of tables for which DMLs have been performed within the transaction
```

.. note:: 

> 		If users attempts to flashback the table on which the trigger is created, unintended results may be obtained. Users are recommended to disable the triggers on the table before flashback.  For more information, see :ref:`alter-trigger`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		If users attempt to flashback a table on which a trigger is created, unintended results may be obtained. Users are recommended to disable triggers on the table before flashback.  For more information, see :ref:`alter-trigger`.
```

The following shows [options] available with the **cubrid flashback** utility.

.. program:: flashback

.. option:: -o, --output-file=FILE

    This option is used to store the SQL statements that can flashback a specific transaction in a specified file. The file is created in the current directory. If the **-o** option is not specified, the message is displayed on a console screen. ::

        cubrid flashback -o db_output demodb dba.tbl

.. option:: -u, --user=ID

    This option is used to specify the user who executed the SQL statements to flashback. If the **-u** option is not specified, then it searches for statements executed by all users. ::

>         cubrid flashback -u dba demodb dba.tbl

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to add a little more explanation about the execution of the -u option. If you use the example execution below, it will be easier to understand.

-u dba가 아닌 -u public 또는 다른 유저명(ex) jooho)을 사용하시고, 위 설명에 이 예시에 대해 추가 설명을 넣어주시면 좋을 것 같습니다. 예를들어, dba.tbl 테이블에 jooho 사용자가 수행한 DML 구문에 대해 flashback을 수행한다. 등.

Author: Yes, it would be nice to provide an example. 
I will add an example to describe what you said.

.. option:: -p, --dba-password=PASSWORD

    This option specifies the password of the dba. If the **-p** option is not specified, then the password should be entered in the prompt.

.. option:: -s, --start-date=DATE

>     This option specifies the start date to flashback in the dd-mm-yyyy:hh:mi:ss (e.g. 28-04-2022:14:10:00) format. It finds transactions that have started after the specified time or are in progress at the specified time among committed transactions. ::

Reviewer: 'cause the `end-date` may not be current.
```suggestion
    This option specifies the start date to flashback in the dd-mm-yyyy:hh:mi:ss (e.g. 28-04-2022:14:10:00) format. It finds transactions that started after the specified time or are in progress at the specified time among committed transactions. ::
```

        cubrid flashback -s 28-04-2022:14:10:00 demodb dba.tbl

.. option:: -e, --end-date=DATE

    This option specifies the end date to flashback in the dd-mm-yyyy:hh:mi:ss (e.g. 28-04-2022:14:10:00) format. It finds transactions that have committed before the specified time.

    If no start date is specified, the start date is set to the value 10 minutes before the end date. Also, if an end date is not specified, the end date is set to 10 minutes after the start date.
    If neither start date nor end date is set, transactions performed up to 10 minutes before the current time are searched for. ::

        cubrid flashback -e 28-04-2022:14:10:00 demodb dba.tbl

.. option:: --detail

>     This option is used to display the detailed information for each SQL statement. Transaction ID, transaction user, and original SQL statements are displayed with the SQL statements for flashback.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to state that the original SQL ([ORIGINAL]) statement is not a statement executed by a user. (ex) insert selet syntax)

original SQL ([ORIGINAL]) 구문은 실제 사용자가 수행한 구문이 아님을 기술해주면 좋겠네요. (ex) insert selet 구문)

Author: Ok, I will add more explanation about it. Thanks

>     This option is used to display the detailed information for each SQL statements. Transaction ID, transaction user, and original SQL statements are displayed with the SQL statements for flashback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This option is used to display the detailed information for each SQL statement. Transaction ID, transaction user, and original SQL statements are displayed with the SQL statements for flashback.
```

        cubrid vacuumdb -C demodb

.. _flashback:

flashback
---------

> The **cubrid flashback** utility is used to get SQL statements to flashback a specific committed transaction, and can only be executed by the **DBA** user. The system parameter **supplemental_log** must be turned on, and flashback is supported only for DML executed after the **supplemental_log** is set. ::

Reviewer 3: as @wrlawodms mentioned, probably  case ofthe word 'flashback'  using  as a verb is not that common, but it did exist. (http://www.dba-oracle.com/t_flashback_database.htm). 

However, in other official documentation (https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/server.102/b14200/statements_9011.htm, https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/backup.112/e10643/rcmsynta023.htm#RCMRF194), the 'flashback' as a verb is commonly replaced by words like  'rewind to '/'return to'. so I would give my suggestion to: 

 ```suggestion
The **cubrid flashback** utility is used to get SQL statements to rewind to a  specific committed transaction, and can only be executed by the **DBA** user. The system parameter **supplemental_log** must be turned on, and flashback is supported only for DML executed after the **supplemental_log** is set. ::
```

Author: Thanks for searching the word 'rewind'. I think it is good to use. 
Since transaction does not mean a specific time, `rewind a transaction` is better than `rewind to a transaction`. Thank you so much for finding the right word.

        Transaction id  User name                         Start time            End time              Num_insert  Num_update  Num_delete  Table
                   135  PUBLIC                            03-05-2022:11:02:40   03-05-2022:11:02:41            1           0           0  public.tbl
        Enter transaction id (press -1 to quit): 135

        delete from [public.tbl] where [a] = 10 limit 1;

.. option:: -p, --dba-password=PASSWORD

    This option specifies the password of the dba. If the **-p** option is not specified, then the password should be entered in the prompt.

.. option:: -s, --start-date=DATE

    This option specifies the start date to flashback in the dd-mm-yyyy:hh:mi:ss (e.g. 28-04-2022:14:10:00) format. It finds transactions that started after the specified time or are in progress at the specified time among committed transactions. ::

        cubrid flashback -s 28-04-2022:14:10:00 demodb dba.tbl

.. option:: -e, --end-date=DATE

    This option specifies the end date to flashback in the dd-mm-yyyy:hh:mi:ss (e.g. 28-04-2022:14:10:00) format. It finds transactions that have committed before the specified time.

>     If no start date is specified, the start date is set to the value 10 minutes before the end date. Also, if an end date is not specified, the end date is set to 10 minutes after the start date.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If no start date is specified, the start date is set to the value of 10 minutes before the end date. Also, if an end date is not specified, the end date is set to 10 minutes after the start date.
```
